# BIOC3301
Folder shows all code used on QIIME 1.9.1 in the metagenomic processing of 16S rRNA gene V4 region to determine the pH dependency of Sphingobacteriales. A mapping file with all metadata and coordinates of the 30 soil samples collected within the Greater London region is also provided under the name map_complete_ph.txt.

Processing workflow is:
* joinends2018.txt - join forward and backward read from sequencing.
* split_libraries2018.txt - demultiplex the sequences with the given barcodes. Quality score cutoff of greater than or equal to 30 was used to filter the sequences.
* open_ref_OTUs_SILVA128_2018.txt + open_ref_otu_parameters.txt - open reference operational taxonomic unit picking from SILVA128 database to assign OTUs to the sequences. Matching to reverse strand allowed. OTU table generated. Summary of OTU table used to determine lowest sampling depth that is more than 100 sequences (as suggested by Kuczynski et al 2010) for further analyses.
* cda_analyses2018.txt + cda_parameter.txt - core diversity analysis including a-diversity and B-diversity analyses of all OTUs categorised by metadata (SamplePh, SamplePotassium, SamplePhosphorus, SampleNitrogen). 
* OTU table sphingobacteriales.txt - filter original OTU table to only contain Sphingobacteriales. 
* beta_diversity_sphingobacteriales.txt - using the Sphingobacteriales OTU table run B-diversity to find clustering based on abundance of Sphinogbacteriales dependent on pH.
* 2D_PCoA_plots_sphingo.txt - Convert 3D PCoA plot generated by B-diversity analysis into 2D to understand the clustering.
* cluster_quality_sphingo.txt - analyse the quality of the clustering based on pH in the PCoA plots.
* group_significance.txt - analysis of the significance of pH in contributing to the variance in abundance of Sphingobacteriales through the Kruskal-Wallis test. Null hypothesis = All population medians are equal.
* kendall_ph_correlation.txt - nonparametric kendall correlation (looks at rank correlation without assuming any distribution) between pH and abundance of Sphingobacteriales.
